- [Instructor] One of the easiest ways
to build an application using Quarkus
is through the Command Line.
This is not a throwaway prospect either
Command Line applications are used for things
like batching, cron operations in real world applications.
In fact, I write more cron operations
than anything else on a standard week.
So let's talk a little bit about
what a Command Mode application is.
So essentially, you get all of the power of Quarkus,
and all of its CDI and everything else that comes with it.
All of this comes at the Command Line.
Now, again, this is great for cron applications
or batch jobs, especially in a Kubernetes environment,
where those batch jobs run and run in their own container.
Again, it works very, very well with Kubernetes.
If you're already doing Java based applications,
because again, you're getting the power of Quarkus,
which includes smaller memory footprint,
faster startup time, all was in a Kubernetes job.
And of course, you can control the return value,
which is very critical so that you know
if your job succeeded or failed.
So why would you use a Command Mode application
versus Bash or Python.
And really, it comes down to having the power of Java
and the power of Quarkus together,
giving you all of the common abstractions
that come with Quarkus.
And all of the resiliency that comes with Java.
And you then also get the ability to write to databases,
write to cues, call services,
some of which becomes much more complicated with tools
like Bash, or you have to bring out another language
like Python, if you're already a Java shop,
writing Quarkus applications,
using Command Mode for Batch jobs
really does make a lot of sense.
So let's take a look at what this looks like.
Okay, so the first thing we're going to do is
we're going to actually create a new application.
Now, I am going to use the built in function of my IV.
If you don't have a plugin to do this,
you can do it from the web's guide,
and create it or you can run that plugin
and actually generate it either way works just fine.
But I think you'll find that if you have a modern idea,
like Eclipse, or IntelliJ,
using the plugin really works well.
So I'm going to go and use the Quarkus plugin.
And I'm going to give my item
a Group of com.frankmoley.lil.lq,
and this will be command app.
Now, for this example, we need no web products at all,
we only need Quarkus.
So we're not going to bring in any web,
no data, no messaging, nothing, just raw Quarkus.
And we don't really even need YAML.
Although if we were deploying this to Kubernetes,
it might make sense to have YAML.
But for now, we're just going to leave it as is
go ahead and allow this to be built.
Alright, so now in source, main, Java,
you'll see we get an example resource,
and that's just from the plugin,
I'm going to go ahead and delete
that example resource because we don't need it.
And I'm going to delete the tests that come with it.
And now in the lq folder,
I'm going to create a new class.
So you need to add Maven framework support here.
Alright, so the class that we are going
to call is command runner.
That command runner is going to be annotated
with @QuarkusMain.
And to make this easy, we will implement
QuarkusApplication.
Now what you'll see here is this tells me immediately
that I need a method.
And the method that I need to have is the run method.
So this is going to be the entry point to my application,
is it because I have implemented QuarkusApplication,
it's going to run this run method,
and you'll see that I get the arguments as well,
that are passed via the command line.
Now, I am simply going to do System.out.printline.
And we will print out Hello Students.
And then we will return zero because it is a success.
So let us run our command app.
And you will see that our application exited with code zero
and a couple lines up you'll see
that it printed Hello Students.
That really is all there is
to running a Bash job with Quarkus.
Now obviously we're going to add to this
and put a little bit more power behind it,
other than just printing to the command line
but that's all there is
we now have the full power of Quarkus
with just a few simple commands.
We can do a lot of stuff with this cron job,
which as you might imagine,
makes it very valuable in a production system.